---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1: Self-Awareness"
date:   2023-10-01 
categories: TAP
description: "Self-assessment"
---

<blockquote style="background-color: #f4f4f4; border: 1px solid #333; padding: 10px; text-align: center;">
    <strong style="color: black;">“Know thyself.”</strong>
</blockquote>
<cite style="text-align: right; display: block;">—First Maxim of Delphi</cite>

<iframe width="100%" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/R9qVa4LoJx8?si=ba9K7Jv3_sANbF4J" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Self-awareness 

**Where are you at?**

Have you ever called in a contractor to tackle a problem at your home? Ever taken your vehicle to a mechanic? Or found yourself in a hospital room, uncertain about your ailment? Consider what these professionals do first: they assess. The contractor surveys your house, the mechanic examines your car, and the doctor evaluates your health. Before any fix, tweak, or treatment, they need a clear picture of the situation.

This principle is vital in self-improvement too. To better ourselves, we must first become self-aware, understanding our current state. This isn't a one-off task, but a continuous process. Just as a house needs regular upkeep and a car requires ongoing maintenance, self-awareness is a habit to be developed and integrated into our daily lives. It's about constant, mindful self-evaluation. But remember, every journey begins with a single step.


In the journey of self-awareness, it's crucial to understand that this process is not just about identifying flaws or weaknesses. It's also about recognizing your strengths, values, and passions. Acknowledging what you do well and what brings you joy is as important as understanding areas for improvement. This balanced view fosters a positive and realistic self-concept, empowering you to leverage your strengths while working on your growth areas.

Moreover, self-awareness is deeply tied to your interactions with others. By understanding your own emotions and reactions, you're better equipped to empathize with others, communicate effectively, and build stronger relationships. It's like being both the mechanic and the driver; knowing the workings of your 'vehicle' enhances how you navigate the road of life, interact with fellow travelers, and reach your desired destinations. Remember, self-awareness isn't a solitary journey; it's about connecting more authentically with the world around you.

The essence of self-improvement lies in identifying and eliminating negative behaviors we want to change, while simultaneously cultivating positive traits we aspire to have. Self-awareness plays a critical role in this process. It acts as a mirror, reflecting our current behaviors and patterns, both good and bad. By being self-aware, we can accurately assess where we stand in our personal development journey and monitor our progress. This understanding is crucial for making conscious efforts towards improvement and for tracking how effectively we are replacing undesirable habits with beneficial ones.

# Discussion Question: 
This week try to think about the negative behaviour traits you wish to eliminate or minimize. 

# Homework 
This week try to think about and be aware of any negative behaviour traits you might practice. Here are a few examples:

Procrastination: Delaying tasks, like putting off doing laundry until the last minute.

Defensiveness: Reacting negatively to criticism, such as getting upset when someone suggests a better way to do something.

Impulsiveness: Making hasty decisions, like buying something expensive on a whim without considering the consequences.

Negativity: Consistently seeing the downside, like always expecting the worst outcome in any situation.

Stubbornness: Refusing to change your opinion, even when presented with new information.

Selfishness: Prioritizing your own needs over others, such as not sharing resources or time.

Lack of Self-Control: Struggling to manage impulses, like overeating or reacting angrily.

Indecisiveness: Struggling to make choices, like taking a long time to decide what to order at a restaurant.

Inflexibility: Being resistant to change, such as refusing to try new methods at work.

Jealousy: Feeling envious of others' achievements or possessions, like begrudging a colleague's promotion.

Whenever you experience any of these, stop and think about the situation, and if you can, write down what the situation was and how you acted.

[Video-Primer]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R9qVa4LoJx8

